---
title: "Whiskey Row Marathon"
date: 2024-08-21T22:57:00Z
startdate: 2024-10-12T05:00:00Z
enddate: 2024-10-12T12:00:00Z
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/1544259852832711/
layout: post
location: 
feature-img: "assets/img/big-trail.jpg"
---

Are You Tough Enough? As an Arizona running tradition for 46 years, the Whiskey Row Marathon is among the toughest races in the country. Featuring rugged terrain, an altitude in excess of one mile above sea level and, on occasion, severe weather, it’s challenging, fun and offers a number of running routes for runners of all skill and fitness levels, including a marathon, half marathon, 10k and new this year a 5K and .30 Mile High Fun Run.<br>
  Proceeds from this race will go directly into the scholarship fund at the James Family Prescott YMCA. This fund provides families in financial need to participate in childcare, swimming lessons, youth sports and gymnastics classes. Your participation in this race not only promotes your personal health, but also promotes the overall health of the Prescott Community.<br>
  <br>
  Join runners from all over the country in this prestigious event – and show your friends and family that you are “Tough Enough”.<br>
  <br>
  Race Times&#58;<br>
  Marathon- 6&#58;00am<br>
  Half Marathon- 7&#58;00am<br>
  10K- 7&#58;30am<br>
  5K- 8&#58;00am<br>
  .3 Mile High Fun Run- 7&#58;10am<br>
  <br>
  Course closes at noon.<br>
  There will be a 5&#58;00am early start for marathoners who would struggle to finish the race in 6 hours. Early starters' results will appear in a separate results listing and be ineligible for awards.<br>
  Prices vary by race and sign-up date&#58; $25.00-$125.00<br>
  Weather can still be chilly or nice and sunny requiring sunscreen and shorts! Check weather.com for updates.<br>
  <br>
  <br>
  
