---
author: 
  - jon
date: "2022-05-13T00:00:00Z"
feature-img: assets/img/jon/media/image14.jpg
tags:
  - race-report
  - local
  - cocodona
thumbnail: assets/img/jon/media/image14.jpg
title: Cocodona 250
aliases:
  - /2022/05/13/jon-cocodona.html
---

Cocodona 250 Race Report

Everyone has their own "why" when tackling such a massive endeavor. Why
run/walk/hike/cry/hurt across 250 miles of Arizona?

I can't remember where I heard it, but it stuck with me; **to see what
happens**.

If you want the short version, here's what happened; I realized at a
new, deep and profound level I am known and loved. By God, *through* a
whole host of wonderful people.

Details:

On my 36th birthday, I wanted to attempt 36 miles as a bit of a test,
and on that day I received an email from the legendary Cocodona Race
Director, Steve Aderholt confirming they would allow me entrance to the
race with a charity bib, giving me the opportunity to raise funds for a
wonderful organization in Prescott, Agape House, that serves and
resources families with transitional housing.

I'd never attempted anything close to 250 miles. My ultra-racing
experience totaled **TWO** events. The Whiskey Basin 91k (57miles) in
2019 and Black Canyon 100k (62miles) in 20202. I'll be the first to
admit, I have an overconfidence in my abilities and that can block out
conventional wisdom. But I read, watched, and did research and it all
seemed feasible.

A little over 6 months of training later, my family and I arrived at the
starting line, jet lagged after returning from a 12 day trip to Europe
just 60 hours earlier, having no clue what to expect for the next five
days. My wife Karen was completely new to crewing at had the 3 mini Wolf
boys in tow. I'd never gone beyond 62 miles. What came over the next 5
days wouldn't disappoint.

**A Calm Resolve - Day 1**

"*Listen to your life. See it for the fathomless mystery it is. In the
boredom and pain of it, no less than in the excitement and gladness:
touch, taste, smell your way to the holy and hidden heart of it, because
in the last analysis all moments are key moments, and life itself is
grace.*"

Frederick Buechner

After a chill send off with my family and our like-family friends, the
Garcias, I attempted to temper my nervous excitement with a calm,
present, resolve to "just be here" for the first section of the race. As
the first miles ticked by, with all the angst and conversations (both
internal and external) happening, I felt the need to try and get my head
in the right space to reckon with the next 5 days. It was odd rolling
through the hometown hills and neighborhoods, to be just a few miles
from home with so many more to go.

I got to see fellow Prescott people Jason Baum and Carol Northrup at the
first aid station and headed out with some Pringles and watermelon to
consume on the way. A photographer snapped a pic with them in my mouth,
and about 50 yards later, I inhaled a chunk of chip and almost choked.

The next section I encountered a sweet king snake, followed a couple
hundred feet later by a runner frozen on the trail hesitantly pushing us
back saying, "SNAKE" - We saw it was a friendly bull snake and went
around.

Coming into White Rock proved to be the difference for the race. It was
the first encounter with crew. I rolled up to one of my boys holding a
sign "You're not almost there...But you are loved!"

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image3.jpg)

Karen, our boys, and my sister were there to help. Their questions and
smiles were so encouraging and proved to be a difference-maker
throughout the race.

I would see them next at Skull Valley (Mile 36.5) after sharing some
miles with Jason and Carol and getting one of the tastiest bacon
cheeseburgers I've every had (thanks to James Nalley, Tracy Evans and
the team down there). I was due for a little bit of foot care and a sock
swap, and Karen was on it, though having never done it. A picture of
love.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image13.jpg)

As I climbed back up the hill solo with the sun setting, I was overcome
with a sense of awe and gratitude. Who gets to do this?! Through the
support of a bunch of friends and family, I do, and it's a privilege
that I wouldn't take for granted.

That evening I was wondering what the best sleep strategy would be. At
times I was feeling great...So good I was running hard down some hills
until my right hip started talking to me (rookie mistake). I was tempted
to press past Whiskey Row to sleep later, but ultimately opted to "bank"
some sleep. Not only that, a shower and my bed sounded nice, so Karen
picked me up from downtown, I ate 1/2 a pizza on the way home, showered,
slept for two hours, and met my first pacer and a good friend, Scott
Ritchie at about 5:45am on Tuesday morning.

**A Patient Persistence - Day 2**

"*But let patience have it's perfect work, that you may be perfect and
complete, lacking nothing*."

James 1:4

After heading out from Whiskey Row, I entered the "unknown" zone beyond
62 miles. Though a little tired, time with Scott was good, (admittedly,
my end of conversation was not as quick and lively as usual), and we
were able to stay ahead of goal pace. I was noticing a couple niggles
still in my hip, and developing something in my left ankle and right
achilles. We got to see a chilled out rattle snake on Iron King. Harley
Guy was at the aid station and kind enough to get his watch charging
cable, since mine wasn't working. Jillian whipped up a mean lentil baked
potato. My mom and family were at the aid station and we headed out
toward Fain.

I was grateful the wind was at our backs, because this section was a bit
boring and tedious finding the way where there was no real trail leading
to Mingus. Give me a home, where the buffalo roam? We simply persisted
and pressed forward.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image9.png)

My sister Rachel and brother in law Jimmy, as well as Karen and the boys
met us at the Fain Ranch with a nice smoothie and on we went toward
Mingus. Scott shared some delicious dark chocolate/almond butter treat
and was able to tackle his first ultra-distance making it the 31 miles
to Mingus.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image7.png)

I was a bit fatigued at Mingus (learning I'm not a fan of 1-4pm), but
two plates of lasagna, a hip stretch, time with the family and the
Garcias, and having my next good friend and pacer, James Madson join the
fun boosted the spirits.

James and I headed out, enjoyed the beautiful scenery and sunset, and
endured the crazy scramble down into Jerome with a celebratory beer at
the 100 mile marker. I had my only fall of the race in this section
which was a little more like a slide. I remember being a bit gassed at
Jerome, ready for some sleep, but James convinced me to get a couple
coffees down and try to make it to Deadhorse.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image11.png)

He helped navigate my weary body through that section and we plotted to
only sleep an hour there to try and beat the heat the next day heading
into Sedona. I was a little frustrated that it felt like I was losing
the ability to run about 110 miles in, but we were still making good
time.

**The Wheels Fall Off - Day 3**

"*Everything come back around full circle*

*Why do lies sound pleasant but the truth hurtful?*

*Everybody gotta cry once in a while*

*But how long will it take \'fore you smile?*"

J. Cole - The Climb Back

After a solid hour nap at Dead Horse and waking up, drenched in a cold
sweat, I remember whining to Karen, who got my butt moving (this would
become a theme after sleep). I downed a taco, some coffee, took another
taco for the road and we headed out at 3:30am. Because my ankle and
achilles were sore, I slipped some compression sleeves on which proved
to be a mistake.

The morning was gorgeous. The blossoming cactus and ocotillos, the
birds, and James giving me nature lessons from his recent experience in
ornithology was wonderful. Then blisters on the right foot hit like an
arrow head between my first and second toe. Ouch. Sleeve off, tape on.
Move forward.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image2.jpg)

We met Karen and the boys at Deer Pass before 8. Chugged an energy
drink, ate some sort of wonderful pastry, and moved out as quick as
possible to encounter another set of blisters, this time on the left
foot from the compression sleeve. Ah, well. Quick clean, tape, move
forward.

The next 6-8 miles were fun and beautiful with all the wildflowers in
bloom in some alien landscapes, but about 3 miles before the Sedona aid,
the wheels came off.

My left ankle went from sore to flaring pain, and the right achilles
started locking up and any amount of speed or power were gone. It was
getting warmer, and it felt as though the aid station would never come.
My mood started to sour, pace started to slow, and I started considering
the need to drop at the next aid. Karen and I had an agreement that if
my body didn't cooperate, I wouldn't compromise permanent damage, but
would pull myself. It seemed that reality was approaching.

I texted Karen "Can we just move here? Today?" I wondered if the church
we were heading to needed a pastor...Maybe I could start today?

Bigfoot Madson proved to be not only a great friend but a superb pacer
and crew. He heard me, encouraged, and really didn't give credence to my
complaints. Just get to aid. Get some food. Get some medicine. He's
really the best. He put in a strong and helpful 54 miles.

We got there close to 2pm and the goose was cooked. Walking was
difficult, the pain was high, and I told Karen I was done. Everything
from the ankles up felt great. I still had energy, clarity, etc, but the
feet and mechanics weren't there. I thought she'd say "ok, I understand,
good call honey." But what I got was "You're Switzerland for the next
hour. Remain neutral. Let's not say for sure what's happening either
way.. Eat this burger, take this medicine and get an hour of sleep."

Huh? I thought we had an agreement? Really? Ok. Burger. Medicine. Sleep.
Wake up. It's worse. I go (hobble) to the medical tent where Ulysses did
a fantastic job taping some blisters and evaluating my ankle with
another EMT and both agreed that I should not continue, due to swelling,
current injuries and the risk of permanent damage. Bummer. But I wasn't
quitting, I was getting pulled, right? However, we were at a church and
a mini resurrection was underway. The shoes went on and I was able to
walk with a little bit of purpose. Ok. Here we go. I found out the
medics marked me as not continuing and were surprised to see me leave
the aid station on foot.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image4.jpg)

James Nalley (a fellow PATR and one of the best pianists I've had the
pleasure of seeing perform) picke- up pacing in Sedona. We left about
4:45pm and I told Karen I'd text her by Midgley Bridge, about 5 miles
later, to pick me up if things weren't working.

Things weren't really working, but I was happy with being able to
maintain 18-20minute miles and in doing the math, if I could keep that
going, I wouldn't have to go through the 5th night. The rotation of
tylenol and ibuprofen, alternating every 4 hours kept things mostly
manageable.

We climbed the beast of a hill at sunset and I laughed as I smelled like
my boys as babies due to the A&D diaper ointment that was trying to fix
some of the chafing issues I was having. I was grateful to still be out
there with James Nalley ahead of me, leading the way.

That night of forest roads to Munds was interesting. I swore James was
dancing tango, flamenco, and crip walking...but he assured me, he was
not. Also, I'm pretty sure there are not rows of warehouses (at least
James said there weren't) - And the muffled female voices in the
distance weren't real either. Ah well. I was hoping for some epiphany or
lucid vision, but it never came.

We got to Munds at 3am. I ate a pile of bacon and bread, Karen helped me
get changed and settled into the sleep tent and I was out cold for a 90
minute nap to get ready for the next day.

**Up, Down, Up, Down, Further Down - Day 4**

"*Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel
it*."

JK Rowling, The Goblet of Fire

"*If you can hold on, if you can hold, hold on*"

The Killers, All These Things That I've done

One second after my alarm went off, my helpful and sweet wife was
unzipping the tent to get me moving and out. She declined my invitation
to join me in the sleeping bag, which I found mildly offensive to be
rejected in my time of need, but she too was on a mission...To get me on
two feet again.

More bacon. Pancakes. 16 mile out and back. The morning was beautiful
and though the section felt like it'd never end, we returned in high
spirits. Some of the PATR crew was there to greet us, the family was
there-- this time with my brother and his 3 kiddos, Mike Versteeg was
giving encouragement too, and to top it off, it was our son, Theo's 7th
birthday! We were making progress and spirits were high.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image12.png)

Feet were re-taped and swelling, so I laced my shoes a lot looser, which
proved to be another mistake later, but vibes were good. We got a brief
catch up with the Northrup crew, as she had continued to fly through the
course. Tracy Evans asked if I could wrap up the race in the afternoon
tomorrow so she could be there and I promised to do my best.

On the road again, I called my friend Anthony Garcia, we talked for a
bit, then shortly after, another round of pain entered. My now loose
shoes began to blister my heels and the heat was rising again. Medicine
was wearing off and I was slowing down again. It was frustrating to be
in such a beautiful, runnable place and to only muster 20-minute miles,
but I guess that's part of life after 190 miles.

As we neared Kelly Canyon aid, the second bacon pancake sandwich and
monster energy drink helped press through the wall, and Rage Against the
Machine and Snapcase in the headphones had me pushing with some power.

At Kelly Canyon, I had the heel blisters popped and taped, and the aid
station volunteer kept asking if I things sounded good...And after a
series of 5+ "yes"es, I wound up with a delicious chicken nugget
avocado, something sandwich. We got out of there as quick as we could to
get to Fort Tuthill for some sleep before a final push.

Approaching Tuthill the pain went beyond management again, the miles
slowed to 25ish minutes and the feet, ankle, and achilles weren't
cooperating again.

We arrived and I was at a new low. All hydration and nutrition were on
point still, my stomach being the MVP of my body for the race, but I was
back to having difficulty bearing weight on my feet. James and Jessica
Madson were there with Karen to help, with a cold Modelo, tempurpedic
sleep mats for James Nalley and I, and anything else that was needed.
Seriously-- thank you guys.

At this point it felt dumb to continue. I tried giving Karen another "I
quit" speech which for some odd reason, wasn't landing with any
reception. She sent me to bed, and I told James Nalley I set my alarm
for 90minutes, meaning I'd be up at 12:45am, then we could figure it out
from there. Apparently there was a breakdown in communication because he
woke me up at 12:30am, encouraging me to get moving as to loosen things
up. Under normal circumstances, I'm not great being woken-up...But the
surprise, being drenched in sweat and disoriented wasn't the best start
to the day.

The sleep, medicine, and food seemed to make no difference and I still
couldn't move well. Ate some ramen, drank some coffee, and everyone kept
saying "Only 36 more miles!"\...I hear you, but do you know how long 36
miles is on feet when said feet aren't functioning? Dumb. That's how
long. Again, my "this isn't a good idea, long term damage-blah blah
blah" had zero...ZERO power with my wonderful wife.

When we started I told her "your job as the crew lead is to make sure I
don't quit." I guess she took that to heart. When I asked later about
how we agreed on the whole "long term damage" thing and that didn't seem
to matter, she let me know that had more to do with my vital organs,
which all seemed functioning and fine, and little to do with my feet and
ankles. Ah yes, #communication.

At Tuthill, one table over, there was a grizzled vet, 65 year old
Minnesotan, Jeff Goldstein who came in looking just as bad, if not worse
than me, who also needed blister care, but at no point showed any
hesitation in heading back out. He looked at me and said "let's get
going!" - To which I thought "uh...no thanks, have fun." But next thing
you know, my shoes are on, Karen is waking up Nalley (who went back to
sleep thinking I was throwing in the towel) and I was out the door at
2:30am.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image6.png)

**Dead Man Hiking - Day 5**

"Another way to say it is that everybody is dying and going to die of
something. And if you're not spending your life on the stuff you
believe, then what are you even doing? What is the point of the whole
thing?" Daniel Nayeri - Everything Sad is Untrue

I don't know if I'll ever understand what happened from Fort Tuthill to
Walnut Canyon. It was a walk of death. I felt stripped bare physically
and emotionally, and was in a dark place, but moving forward. There was
a lot of thinking through life, pain, the last few days, the many
surprises of my unbelievably supportive family, and crazy capable
crew-boss wife, and the fact that I was still out there nearing a
finish.

The sun came up on Walnut Canyon, James highlighting just how beautiful
it was, and all I could muster was a grunt and a "pretty" - But I knew
in making it to Walnut Canyon aid, the end was really, really in sight.

It was morning, and Karen and the boys were there again with my brother
and his crew caring for me and filling things up and sending us on our
way.

My spirits were back up and we began the march toward Mordor, I mean,
Mt. Elden. It really looms large and is fun to see it grow as you
approach it. I chugged a monster energy drink and ate a sandwich on the
approach. The climb was mostly enjoyable, then the 3rd bloody nose of
the week set in, except this time, no wet wipes were left. Snow at the
top provided some cooling and cleaning of the face, and the medicine was
wearing off as I hobbled into the final aid station.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image5.jpg)

James Madson was there yet again with help filling bottles and
encouragement. Ryan, one of the volunteers, was eager to get me filled
up with sausage, potatoes, ribs, and a bourbon and coke followed by
another shot of bourbon to put the final dose of ibuprofen down.

Cleaned up, filled up, and medicined up, we set off down the hill with
the pace slightly improving. Chad Trumbo, Tony Russ and Amy Gordon all
passed us on this section, as it appeared they all had some semblance of
downhill legs. Just mildly jealous.

I realized the race wasn't quite over, so I ate 3 Take-5 candy bars that
Theo had given me earlier in the race and continued to push the fluids.

I was mildly self conscious entering Buffalo Park knowing there would be
cameras and people, so I brushed my teeth and rinsed with scope as we
moved closer to the finish. I didn't want Karen to be completely
disgusted with the finish line kiss.

We turned the corner, James Nalley having 106 miles on his legs, and 250
on mine and I saw Tracy... "*I told you I'd finish in the afternoon!"*.
The family, friends, and a pillar in the middle of the finish line
asking to be hopped. I was 95% sure both feet would break, or it'd end
in failure, but thankfully everything held up. I got to see the line I'd
been imagining for months. We did it. Together, stretched beyond our
comfort limits. We did it. A group and family effort. What grace! I'm
known. I'm loved. I see it in the eyes of those celebrating, the
messages of those supporting, the prayers and donations of so many who
believed the risk would be worth it.

We did it. In 102 hours 15 minutes.

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image14.jpg)

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image10.png)

![](/assets/img/jon/media/image1.jpg)
![](/assets/img/jon/media/image8.png)
