---
title: "Black Canyon training run #2 "
date: 2023-11-14 14:18
startdate: 2023-12-17 07:00
enddate: 2023-12-17 10:00
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/1671502210018718/
layout: post
location: 
feature-img: "assets/img/big-trail.jpg"
---

starting at: 2023-12-17 07:00<br>until: 2023-12-17 10:00<br><a href="https://www.facebook.com/events/1671502210018718/">more info on FB</a><br><br>Sunday, December 17 will be the second of three training runs leading up to the 2024 Black Canyon Ultras. Each run will be minimally supported, minimally marked and point to point. We will have shorter options at each. Here is information for those of you wanting to join on this first training run&#58;<br>
  <br>
  Date&#58;<br>
  Sunday, December 17, 2023.<br>
  <br>
  Distance&#58;<br>
  Mile 0 – Bumble Bee<br>
  Mile 4.5 – Gloriana Mine TH (we may have water here)<br>
  Mile 12.8 – Soap Creek (Aid)<br>
  Mile 18.0 – Black Canyon City TH (Finish)<br>
  <br>
  Time&#58;<br>
  7&#58;00am Meet at Black Canyon City TH.<br>
  or 7&#58;30am Meet at Bumble Bee.<br>
  <br>
  The run will start at approximately 7&#58;45-8&#58;00 am from Bumble Bee.<br>
  <br>
  Driving Directions&#58;<br>
  <br>
  Directions to Black Canyon City TH (end of run, park here to carpool to Bumble Bee)<br>
  1. Take exit 242 off the I-17 towards Rock Springs / Black Canyon City<br>
  2. Turn left at the stop sign onto Velda Road Road<br>
  3. Turn right at the next stop sign onto the Old Black Canyon Highway and then an immediate left onto Warner Road towards the Black Canyon City Trailhead<br>
  4. Follow Warner Road for 0.3 miles to the trailhead and aid station. There is a restroom located at this trailhead. There are also dining options and a General Store in Rock Springs and some more options a couple miles north on the Old Black Canyon Highway in Black Canyon City as well as a gas station.<br>
  <br>
  Directions to Bumble Bee (start of run)&#58;<br>
  1. Drive north from Phoenix on the I-17 Freeway<br>
  2. Take exit #248 towards Bumble Bee / Crown King<br>
  3. Turn left and drive 2.1 miles on pavement (road descends downhill)<br>
  4. Turn right at the bottom where it turns to dirt and take Crown King Road for 3.0 miles and park just past the bridge on the left hand side of the road.<br>
  <br>
  Format&#58;<br>
  This is a no fee, limited aid, limited course marking training run. You must plan to be self sufficient in terms of navigation, personal safety and aid between stations. We may drop water at the Gloriana Mine TH at mile 4.5 and have water and food at mile 12.8 (Soap Creek). Please study the maps in this post and follow signage for the Black Canyon Trail.<br>
  <br>
  Markings&#58;<br>
  The course on principle will be unmarked. There is signage for the Black Canyon Trail at most questionable junctions, but we recommend studying and printing maps to bring with you. <br>
  <br>
  Post Run Gathering&#58;<br>
  Bring a camp chair, some snacks and BYOB if you enjoy a Sunday Funday Post-Run hang.<br>
  <br>
  
