---
title: "Black Canyon Training Run #1"
date: 2023-11-14 14:24
startdate: 2023-11-19 07:00
enddate: 2023-11-19 10:00
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/245298674580570/
layout: post
location: 
feature-img: "assets/img/big-trail.jpg"
---

starting at: 2023-11-19 07:00<br>until: 2023-11-19 10:00<br><a href="https://www.facebook.com/events/245298674580570/">more info on FB</a><br><br>This will be the first of three training runs leading up to the 2024 Black Canyon Ultras. We will be breaking up the 100K course into three sections. Each run will be minimally supported, minimally marked and point to point. We will have shorter options at each. Here is information for those of you wanting to join on this first training run&#58;<br>
  <br>
  Date&#58;<br>
  November 19, 2023<br>
  <br>
  Distance&#58;<br>
  Mile 0 – Big Bug Trailhead<br>
  Mile 8 – Antelope Mesa (Water)<br>
  Mile 13 – Hidden Treasure Mine TH <br>
  Mile 20ish – Bumble Bee (Finish) <br>
  <br>
  Time&#58;<br>
  7&#58;00am Meet just North of the bridge at the trailhead in Bumble Bee to carpool to start or 7&#58;45am Meet at Big Bug Trailhead<br>
  <br>
  The run will start approximately at 8&#58;00am from the Big Bug Trailhead off HWY 69. This is an established Trailhead of the BCT just west of Mayer HS. It will have restrooms and plenty of parking. <br>
  <br>
  Driving Directions&#58;<br>
  Directions to Bumble Bee (end of run, park here to carpool to run start)&#58;<br>
  1. Drive north from Phoenix on the I-17 Freeway<br>
  2. Take exit #248 towards Bumble Bee / Crown King<br>
  3. Turn left and drive 2.1 miles on pavement (road descends downhill)<br>
  4. Turn right at the bottom where it turns to dirt and take Crown King Road for 3.0 miles and park just past the bridge on the left hand side of the road.<br>
  <br>
  Directions to Big Bug from Bumble Bee (we will carpool as a group)&#58;<br>
  1. Drive north on Crown King Road for 5.6 miles<br>
  2. Turn right onto Forest Road 259 and go 1.3 miles<br>
  3. Turn right staying on Forest Road 259 and go 2.8 miles<br>
  4. Continue straight onto Antelope Creek Road at town of Cordes and go 2.8 miles<br>
  5. Take right onto Duffers Drive and then go 1.3 miles<br>
  6. Turn left onto Spring Lane and go 0.6 miles through the town of Spring Valley<br>
  7. Turn left onto HWY 69 and the Trailhead will be just west of town on the left hand side. <br>
  <br>
  Format&#58;<br>
  This is a no fee, limited aid, limited course marking training run. You must plan to be self sufficient in terms of navigation, personal safety and aid between stations. We will drop water at the Antelope Mesa Mile 8 and have food and water at Hidden Treasure Mine TH at mile 13ish. Please study the maps in this post and follow signage for the Black Canyon Trail.<br>
  <br>
  Markings&#58;<br>
  The course on principle will be unmarked. There is signage for the Black Canyon Trail at most questionable junctions, but we recommend studying and printing maps to bring with you.<br>
  <br>
  <br>
  Post Run Gathering&#58;<br>
  Bring a camp chair, some snacks and BYOB if you enjoy a post-run Sunday Funday at the trailhead.<br>
  <br>
  
