---
title: "Black Canyon Training Run #3"
date: 2023-11-14 14:18
startdate: 2024-01-14 07:00
enddate: 2024-01-14 10:00
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/283647724365697/
layout: post
location: 
feature-img: "assets/img/big-trail.jpg"
---

starting at: 2024-01-14 07:00<br>until: 2024-01-14 10:00<br><a href="https://www.facebook.com/events/283647724365697/">more info on FB</a><br><br>Sunday, January 14 will the the third and final preview run for the upcoming 2024 Black Canyon Trail 100K. This section will resume from the Black Canyon City Trailhead and continue to head south towards New River & Phoenix. We’ll head back into the canyons and across several more creeks before the trail generally becomes flatter towards the finish at Emery Henderson Trailhead.<br>
  <br>
  Date&#58; <br>
  Sunday, January 14, 2024. <br>
  <br>
  Distance&#58;<br>
  Mile 0 – Black Canyon City TH (Start)<br>
  Mile 13.3 – Table Mesa Road TH (Aid)<br>
  Mile 24.5 – Emery Henderson TH (Finish)<br>
  <br>
  Time&#58;<br>
  7&#58;00am Meet at Emery Henderson TH to carpool<br>
  or 7&#58;30am Meet at Black Canyon City TH<br>
  <br>
  Driving Directions&#58;<br>
  <br>
  Directions to Emery Henderson Trailhead (end of run, park here to carpool to Black Canyon City TH)<br>
  3.1 Miles West of I-17 Freeway exit 232 on New River Road<br>
  <br>
  Directions to Black Canyon City TH (start of run)<br>
  1. Take exit 242 off the I-17 towards Rock Springs / Black Canyon City<br>
  2. Turn left at the stop sign onto Velda Road Road<br>
  3. Turn right at the next stop sign onto the Old Black Canyon Highway and then an immediate left onto Warner Road towards the Black Canyon City Trailhead<br>
  4. Follow Warner Road for 0.3 miles to the trailhead and aid station. There is a restroom located at this trailhead. There are also dining options and a General Store in Rock Springs and some more options a couple miles north on the Old Black Canyon Highway in Black Canyon City as well as a gas station.<br>
  <br>
  Format&#58;<br>
  This is a no fee, limited aid, limited to no course marking training run. You must plan to be self sufficient in terms of navigation, personal safety and aid between stations. We will have water & some food at Table Mesa Road TH. Please study the maps in this post and follow signage for the Black Canyon Trail.<br>
  <br>
  Markings&#58;<br>
  The course on principle will be unmarked. There is signage for the Black Canyon Trail at most questionable junctions, but we recommend studying and printing maps to bring with you. <br>
  <br>
  Post Run Gathering&#58;<br>
  Bring a camp chair, some snacks and BYOB if you enjoy a Sunday Funday post-run hang<br>
  <br>
  
