---
title: "RunSedona"
date: 2025-04-24T15:56:00Z
startdate: 2026-02-07T08:00:00Z
enddate: 2026-02-07T11:00:00Z
patr: false
external_url: https://www.facebook.com/events/1248590886666478/
layout: post
location: 
feature-img: "assets/img/big-trail.jpg"
outputs:
  - html
  - calendar
ICSDescription: |+2
  2025-10-19T16:00:42Z
---

Join us for the 21st annual RunS  edona on February 7-8, 2026, in   the breathtaking landscapes of S  edona, Arizona! This premier run  ning event features a Half Marat  hon, 10K, 5K, and a family-frien  dly 5K Walk on Saturday, Februar  y 7, winding through the iconic   Red Rocks and scenic streets of   one of the "Top Ten Most Beautif  ul Places" (as hailed by travel   magazines). \n\nOn Sunday, Febru  ary 8, experience the unique Run   the Runway, a 1-mile run or wal  k on the stunning Sedona Airport   runway, perfect for all ages an  d abilities. With courses showca  sing iron-clad rock formations a  nd a vibrant community atmospher  e, RunSedona is a bucket-list ra  ce consistently ranked among the   USA’s best. \n\nhttps://www.f  acebook.com/events/1248590886666  478/
%!(EXTRA string=Join us for the 21st annual RunSedona on February 7-8, 2026, in the breathtaking landscapes of Sedona, Arizona! This premier running event features a Half Marathon, 10K, 5K, and a family-friendly 5K Walk on Saturday, February 7, winding through the iconic Red Rocks and scenic streets of one of the "Top Ten Most Beautiful Places" (as hailed by travel magazines). <br>
  <br>
  On Sunday, February 8, experience the unique Run the Runway, a 1-mile run or walk on the stunning Sedona Airport runway, perfect for all ages and abilities. With courses showcasing iron-clad rock formations and a vibrant community atmosphere, RunSedona is a bucket-list race consistently ranked among the USA’s best. <br>
  <br>
  )